# adverse-drug-reaction-mention-extraction
Unintended or unknown reaction after administering a drug which may be harmful is called an Adverse Drug Reaction(ADR). The onset of the adverse reaction may be sudden or develop over time. Also called, Adverse Drug Event , these effects may prove to be fatal , if they go unnoticed. Adverse Drug Event Detection is one of the major challenges, given the increasing complexity of drugs used for treatment , various kinds of co-morbid conditions present in the population and the varying genetic buildup of different people, it is a very challenging, but important task to keep track of adverse drug reactions in the population, to better understand their effects in the long run.  Pharmacovigilance is a term used to describe all activities and initiatives to monitor and assess effects of medicinal drugs in the general population. Social media vigilance is one of the major ways in which, adverse drug events can be monitored . 
The objective of this project is to detect whether or not a given text has a mention of adverse drug reaction. Binary Classification has been performed on the ADE Dataset to achieve the above mentioned task. The details of the dataset are mentioned below.  
The dataset used for this project is the ADE corpus. The ADE corpus constitutes a subset of MEDLINE case reports. The dataset consists of two files DRUG-AE.rel and ADE-NEG.txt. The former provides relations between drugs and their adverse effects and the latter provides all sentences in the ADE Corpus that do not contain any drug related adverse effects. True indicates presence of Adverse Drug Effect, while False indicates its absence.
The dataset consists of 23516 entries out of which 6821 are marked as True and 16695 entries are marked as False. 

NOTE- As is evident, the dataset is imbalanced. Hence to solve this problem of dataset imbalance, SMOTE (Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique) has been used. It is a statistical technique to increase number of samples in the dataset in a balanced way. The results before and after application of this technique has been discussed in detail below.  

